Her brave , moral stand on migrants set a benchmark for the EU that almost all have failed to live up to
It s not long since this paper , along with many other commentators on the European Greek financial crisis , was lamenting German prevarication , the tendency to delay taking decisions and then to do only the minimum at the last possible minute . We were talking , of course , specifically of Chancellor Angela Merkel . The Germans even have a word for it , Merkeling . Our Berlin correspondent Derek Scally wrote bemoaning her patented small steps approach to politics , which combines old East German caution with poll driven pragmatism . The chancellor has always waited to see how the cards would fall before making her bet . That was then .
At this time of year every year , an old very successful marketing advertising ritual plays out . Time magazine , though much diminished in status these days , announces its cover man woman of the year . This year Merkel makes the grade . It is not as if she has been awarded the Nobel Prize . But the new Merkel , described by Time as the most powerful woman in the world and the de facto leader of the European Union does indeed deserve acknowledgment and reappraisal after a year in which she played such a central role in the two existential crises , Greece and the migrants , that rocked the EU .
In the latter context , Merkel s shock decision in the late summer , 10 years after she assumed the chancellorship , to throw open Germany s doors to a pressing throng of refugees was all the more astonishing for its apparent break with her cautious past . She spoke of the issue as the greatest challenge since unification and , when pressed on how she would master it , said simply that it is damn well my obligation to do so .
In part it was an expression of her strong commitment to Europe and the solidarity on which she believes it is based ? of the Greek crisis she had warned that if the euro fails , Europe fails . She was not going to allow that .
But the open door policy also reflected a remarkable political feel for the yet unmanifested popular mood , the outpouring of generosity and welcome to the fleeing refugees that was deeply moving , and , to the astonishment of the political class even here , would be replicated across the continent . The tide may have turned , but Merkel s brave , moral stand set a benchmark for the EU that almost all have failed to live up to .
Her legacy , stateswoman apart , will be also as a remarkably popular politician ? 60 per cent approval ratings ? and to leave Germany , though not yet , both better off economically and more at ease with itself . German identity , so long tied up with Vergangenheitsbew ? ltigung , roughly translated by one writer as wrestling the past into submission , has evolved to the point where , as Scally puts it , Germans are enjoying a new freedom to be the people they d like to be . Merkel has played a quiet , but no small , part in it .
******
So was third place nominations earner The Martian , whose seven nods did not , surprisingly , include one for its veteran director Ridley Scott . But this is not to take away from the greatness ( of the films nominated ) . The black cast and director of hip hop biopic Straight Outta Compton were also left out of the race .
I really want to applaud are some other actors , directors and producers who were at the top of their game this year . Gregory Peck , who served as its president from 1967 through 1970 , pored over the membership rolls and redesignated as associate members people who had not worked for many years , most of whom were retired and not especially in tune with the cutting edge of cinematic or social ideas . I m calling this one for Best Supporting Actor because it really is an ensemble film .
People ask you Oh , are you nervous to go to your premiere ? I m like , I don t know what I could be nervous about . It is not being ignored , and there s a lot of us working at a more grassroots level to try to turn the tides .
You can never expect it , Vikander told the Los Angeles Times by phone from Las Vegas , where she is shooting the next film in the Bourne series alongside fellow nominee Matt Damon , who received a lead actor nod for The Martian . No Will Smith for Concussion ?
This is DiCaprio s fourth Best Actor nomination and with tales of him sleeping in animal carcasses and eating raw liver to make The Revenant , we must hope he wins , or god knows what he will do next . An Oscar nomination can be a career changing moment for any actor , filmmaker or crew member , and whether it s your first nomination ( Brie Larson ) or your 50th ( John Williams seriously , he has 50 Oscar nominations ) , it s always a special moment .
Although Cube took the snub in stride , the action brought major criticism as it marked the 2nd straight year that all white actors were nominated in Academy s major acting categories .
It appears to be a no brainer that Sylvester Stallone will win Best Supporting Actor for his role in Creed , while the avant garde narration of The Revenant will hopefully be awarded Best Cinematography at least . His stiffest competition is seen as Mark Rylance , best known for his stage work , for Bridge of Spies . Doing a period drama , I ve got no trousers on and I was standing there in a shirt .
I love TheSlyStallone , wrote indie director Joe Carnahan , but Michael B . Jordan , Tessa Thompson Ryan Coogler don t get noms for CREED ! ? .
Over the last few years , particularly during the administration of Cheryl Boone Isaacs , who is black , the Academy has leaned on studios to be more open minded in their hiring practices , and has leaned on its own branches to make diversity a higher priority . Hopefully that will start to pay off over time . This film also marks the first time that director Quentin Tarantino employed a composer for one of his films , as he previously just compiled sound bites from other movies for use in his films .
Instead , Lenny Abrahamson for Room was the unexpected addition along with Adam McKay , known best for his broader Will Ferrell comedies , for The Big Short .
Jennifer Lawrence s nomination for best actress might be a stretch , as she was the protagonist in a film that received only a 60 percent favorable rating on the critics aggregator , website Rotten Tomatoes .
Aaron Sorkin can also be grumpy as the screenplay of Steve Jobs was expected to be nominated , but the Academy didn t agree .
It s true . But , thankfully , only for best original song .
******
Here ' s a new kind of fast fashion a zip up tie for men . The innovative fashion statement is draped round the neck and then the two sections are zipped up which could save precious seconds for anyone late for a meeting and eliminates the need to re tie it later in the day .
The tie costs 42 and comes in three different sizes and shades of blue and grey .
But even the designer , Josh Jakus ,
from Oakland , California , admits it won ' t be to everyone ' s taste and is
more for those who want to ' assert their individuality ' .
Time saver : The zip up tie can be donned in seconds with no need to re tie later in the day
He said : ' I don ' t think it will replace
the original tie there are a lot of people who would prefer to stick
with the tradition that ' s fine with me . '
Mr Jakus added that his tie is ' perfect for any occasion where you want to both look good and different at the same time ' .
' A friend has worn the tie to government functions in Washington DC and he didn ' t look out of place , ' he said .
The 44 year old said the style also makes a great talking point when worn at parties .
Fast fashion : Designer Josh Jakus came up with the innovative fashion statement that allows men to zip and go
' When I wore the zip tie to a cocktail party recently I spent the whole evening talking about nothing else , ' he said . ' The feedback has been great . One of my male friends initially hated the tie , but then a minute later he said he loved it . I took it as a huge compliment because it meant he had to think about the design that ' s what I want my work to do . '
The product designer explained how he came up with the idea thanks to the surplus supplies of material his company had .
Style statement : Mr Jakus admits the innovative tie is for men who want to ' assert their individuality '
He said : ' My other designs are made with zippers and felt , and my company had surplus of both of these materials . I was trying to find a use for the extra material and started coming up with different ways to create a new and unique idea .
' At one point I put a zipper around my neck and the idea was born it was pretty easy to figure it out from there . '
He said the ties , which will be available to buy online and from selected retailers are currently ' for all ages ' but he hasn ' t ruled out a range for children .
' I haven ' t made a tie for kids yet , but I know a friend has bought one of the smaller sized ties for her son , ' he said .
Wooden tie , 38 , by Made Lovingly , www . notonthehighstreet . com
Tie made from Lego , 16 , www . brickyourneck . com
Functional : The SwipeTie , 39 . 95 , www . swipeswipe . com , is made from material that can clean surfaces like mobile phone screens
Drink while you think : The FlaskTie , 24 . 99 , www . flasktie . co , double as a drinks container with a built in straw
******
